it took just 6 weeks for the US built
humanitarian PE to fail on May 15th US
Navy ship sailed from the Israeli Port
of Azo to Gaza as these exclusive Al
jazer images show these are warships and
Logistics vessels responsible for
connecting the floating structure to
gaza's shore on A's way in the sh area
the pier became operational on May 17th
supported by two ships set about 9 km
off the coast the images show two US
ships and a smaller one intended to
transport trucks onto the pier but
problems arose almost
immediately 8 Days Later high waves
overwhelmed the pier over that period
just 29 trucks delivered 99 shipments
into Gaza dilemma that the American uh
forces had in trying to build a peer uh
with absolutely zero support from the
Israelis in a place of war and trying to
bypass the Israelis without coming to A
A Clash with them and uh it added up to
too little uh with bad weather too late
publicly available Logistics details
show US Navy personal constructing the
pier us officials said the mission was
also to protect it armed with machine GS
and armored vehicles US forces also
installed an air defense system and
attached it to the Eastern side of the
pier when the pier collapsed they had to
dismantle the system as well the F
missile defense system is capable of
automatically tracking missiles and
aircraft US military officials are now
looking at what went wrong with the
project in the meantime more than 2
million Palestinians continue to suffer
with not nearly enough Aid getting into
Gaza by land or t abum Al jazer Dar
balah
palestin well let's bring in gersan
Basin he's the Middle East director at
the NGO of the international communities
organization he's also a former hostage
negotiator he joins us now from West
Jerusalem gersan there were always
questions about how this peer would
function criticism too that it it was a
distraction and an excuse not to open
land roots does this failure of the P
now change The Diplomatic calculus here
is there perhaps more pressure on the
Israelis to reopen land
borders I think there is international
pressure on Israel to open up additional
land borders um the Rafa Crossing is
closed since Israel conquered the
Palestinian side of the Rafa Crossing
which has cut down a major passageway
for Aid there is the K
Shalom passageway from the Israeli side
into Gaza that needs to be open and
there needs to be roots from the north
of Gaza into the northern part of Gaza
into da into to Bon and Bia jabalia Gaza
City this all needs to be done and it
has to be as a result of international
pressure because it's doubtful that
Israel will do it on its own you say
International pressure I've been
wondering as we watch the humanitarian
situation deteriorate even further we
see more and more pictures of emaciated
dying children more and more civilian
deaths where is public sentiment in
Israel I mean we've seen people actually
attacking Aid
trucks right public sentiment in Israel
is mainly with the Israeli hostages and
the families of the hostages and the
families of soldiers who have been
killed there's a really one-sided view
of the war from the Israeli side um the
Israelis don't really see the
humanitarian suffering in Gaza I think
it's perhaps time that we understand
also that that the problem is not only
getting the trucks in but there's also a
problem of distribution because there's
a breakdown of Law and Order in Gaza
there is no functioning police and if
there was a police it would be Hamas
police maybe it's time for the United
Nations security Council not only to
pass resolutions for calling for a
ceasefire but perhaps to use chapter 7
of the United Nations Charter and to
send International forces to protect the
Palestinian people in Gaza to force the
Israelis to withdrawal and to put an end
to this war that's a big call G so
you're saying that that you're for
international intervention for arms and
boots on the ground from other
countries well I don't know how we're
going to end this war because the
Israelis have refused to deal with any
alternative to H in Gaza Hamas is
digging in its boots into the ground and
putting out statements a big statement
by KH Mas just yesterday about Hamas
staying in Gaza and that no one would
replace them so we need to look to the
Future where where Gaza will be able to
be governed where reconstruction can
happen the International Community isn't
going to put a penny into Gaza as long
as the mass is in control or as long as
Israel is in Gaza so we need to think
out of the box and come up with
solutions that will enable War to end
the Israeli hostages to come home and a
rebuilding of Gaza process to begin in
collaboration with Palestinians on the
ground in Palestinians in the West Bank
it it needs to be done collaboratively
but we need to get this war to end
quickly you speak about the War ending
but you mentioned that public sentiment
in Israel remains very much with with
the captives there's obviously been huge
and and growing anger about the Israeli
government's lack of ability to get them
home is that now also perhaps shifting
to the way that the war is actually
being carried out we we have been seen
more and more divisions in
government well we are seeing divisions
in the government not necessarily about
the war in Gaza or about the hostages
it's mainly internal Israeli issues like
the draft law the Supreme Court decision
of two days ago which is obligating the
government to draft all the ultra
Orthodox into the army until there's a
law that that gives them some kind of
deferment from the Army which is
unlikely to happen at this time so the
government of Israel seems to be
imploding which is a good thing we need
to get to new elections but even that's
a process that will take months not days
well let me ask you then right now where
are any kind of talks around captive
exchanges a ceasefire you yourself dealt
with Hamas as a hostage negotiator for
17 years what would it take right now to
get momentum going
again I really don't know we have an
unbreachable Gap it seems at the present
time where Hamas is not going to make
any agreement with Israel that does not
include an end to the war and Mr Nan has
made it quite clear that he is only
willing to do a partial agreement
without an obligation to end the war
I've spoken to people on the Israeli
negotiating team who have told me that
this is the reality on the ground that
natano has not given a green light to
the negotiators to arrive at an
agreement that would end the war natany
is sticking to what he says only a
partial agreement that would bring some
of the hostages home and give us a SE
fired but not an obligation to end the
war so we are stuck and the families of
the hostages are extremely frustrated
been sad we're we're N9 months into this
war now and no end in sight Jan Baskin
there the Middle East director at the
NGO the international communities
organization thank you for joining us
again on Al jazer sir it's great to get
your
thoughts make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz